Refresh of the PWA docs (#2334)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/offline.md

---
title: Store data on the device

> description: How to use the different data storage options in Progressive Web Apps to create resilient experiences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to use the different data storage options in Progressive Web Apps to enable users to continue working even if the network connection becomes unstable or goes offline.
```

| IndexedDB | IndexedDB is an API for storing larger amounts of structured data. The API is asynchronous and can be used both from your app's front-end code and service worker code. Use the IndexedDB API to store a significant amount of structured data on the client, or binary data, such as encrypted media objects or files. |
| Cache | The Cache API can be used to manage cached resources. The Cache API is Promise-based and allows developers to store and retrieve many web resources—HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, JSON, and so on. Usually, the Cache API is used within the context of a service worker, but it's also available to your app's front-end code. |
| File System Access | The File System Access API allows your PWA to read files and folders on the user's device and save changes back to them. |

> **Note**: do not use WebSQL or Application Cache. While these are two other browser storage mechanisms, they have both been deprecated. Instead of WebSQL, use IndexedDB. Instead of Application Cache, use the Cache API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Do not use WebSQL or Application Cache. While these are two other browser storage mechanisms, they have both been deprecated. Instead of WebSQL, use IndexedDB. Instead of Application Cache, use the Cache API.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Web Storage

Web Storage is useful for storing small amounts of string data on the user's device. The simplicity of the key-value pair system of Web Storage makes it easy to use.

Web Storage works synchronously in your app's main thread only. This means that Web Storage isn't available for use within service workers, and that heavy usage of Web Storage may create performance issues for your application.

Each type of Web Storage, session and local, is maintained as a separate data store that's isolated to the domain that created it.

> *  `sessionStorage` persists only for the duration of the session. For example, while the browser is open, which includes refresh and restores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  `sessionStorage` persists only for the duration of the session - for example, while the browser is open, which includes refresh and restores.
```
"for example" isn't a complete sentence so works better conjoined

The following code shows how to use `localStorage`, which is similar to how `sessionStorage` is used:

```javascript
const browserInformation = {
  name: 'Microsoft Edge',
  version: 108
};

localStorage.setItem('browser', JSON.stringify(browserInformation));
```

The above code stores a JavaScript object as a JSON string in `localStorage` using the `setItem()` method, and assigns a key equal to `browser`. You can retrieve the information from `localStorage` by using the `getItem()` method as shown below:

```javascript
const value = localStorage.getItem('browser');

const browserInformation = JSON.parse(value);
```

To learn more, see [Web Storage API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Web_Storage_API) on MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## IndexedDB

IndexedDB is an asynchronous API for storing structured data that can be used in your app's front-end code or service worker code. Use the IndexedDB API for storing a significant amount of structured data on the client, or binary data, such as encrypted media objects or files.

> IndexedDB is the best option for storing data in your PWA because using the API does not slow down your app by blocking the main thread, and it can be used both from your app's front-end code and service worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IndexedDB is the best option for storing data in your PWA, because using the API doesn't slow down your app by blocking the main thread, and it can be used both from your app's front-end code and service worker.
```

> Using IndexedDB is more complex than using Web Storage and requires the following steps to store data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using IndexedDB is more complex than using Web Storage, and requires the following steps to store data:
```

1. Opening a database by using the `window.indexedDB.open()` function.
1. Creating an object store in the database by using the `IDBDatabase.createObjectStore()` function.
1. Starting a transaction to store data by using the `IDBDatabase.transaction()` function.
1. And waiting for the operation to complete by listening to an event.

To learn more and view code examples, see [Using IndexedDB](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API/Using_IndexedDB) on MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Cache

> The Cache API is a system for storing and retrieving network requests and responses in your app's front-end code or service worker. It can be used to store assets, such as images and files, locally on the user's device, which can make your application work offline or improve its performance by reducing the number of network requests needed to render the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cache API is a system for storing and retrieving network requests and responses in your app's front-end code or service worker. It can be used to store assets, such as images and files, locally on the user's device. This can make your application work even when it's offline, or improve its performance by reducing the number of network requests that are needed to render the app.
```

> The following code snippet shows how to listen to the `fetch` event in a service worker, and using it to store the response from the server using the Cache API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code snippet shows how to listen to the `fetch` event in a service worker, and using the `fetch` event to store the response from the server using the Cache API:
```

```javascript
self.addEventListener("fetch", event => {
  async function cacheAndReturnRequest() {
    // Get the response from the server.
    const fetchResponse = await fetch(event.request.url);
    // Open the app's cache.
    const cache = await caches.open("cache-name");
    // Put the response in cache.
    cache.put(event.request.url, fetchResponse.clone());
    // And return the response.
    return fetchResponse.
  }

  event.respondWith(cacheAndReturnRequest());
});
```

To discover other useful Cache API scenarios, see [Use Service Workers to manage network requests](./service-workers.md).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## File System Access

The File System Access API makes it possible for your app to access files on the user's device in a way that's similar to native applications. It can be used to create applications that can read and write files, such as text or image editors.

> The open a file from the user's device, use the `showOpenFilePicker()` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To open a file from the user's device, use the `showOpenFilePicker()` function:
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Storage quota

In Microsoft Edge, local and session storage are limited to about 5MB each. Your app can also use up to 60% of the total disk space for storing IndexedDB, Cache API, and File System Access API data.

You can use `navigator.storage.estimate()` to ask the Storage Manager API how much total space is available and how much the current app already uses. To learn more, see [StorageManager.estimate()](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/StorageManager/estimate) on MDN.

Trying to store more data than what is allowed results in a JavaScript error messages. Your code should catch these errors by using `try...catch` statements. The code snippet below shows how to catch an exceeded quota error when storing data in Web Storage:

```javascript
try {
  localStorage.setItem('foo', 'bar');
} catch (e) {
  // Code that handles the lack of storage space.
}
```

> When the user's device starts being low on available disk space, also known as storage pressure, the browser that's running your app may start evicting non-persistent data. This means that the data your app stored by using the Cache API, IndexedDB, the File System Access API, or Web Storage may get evicted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the user's device starts being low on available disk space, also known as _storage pressure_, the browser that's running your app may start evicting non-persistent data. This means that the data your app stored by using the Cache API, IndexedDB, the File System Access API, or Web Storage may get evicted.
```

> By default, the data you store is considered not persistent which means that the browser can clear it under storage pressure. If your app stores critical data, use the `navigator.storage.persist()` function to ask for your app's storage to be persistent. Persistent storage can only be cleared by the user. To learn more, see [StorageManager.persist()](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/StorageManager/persist) on MDN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the data you store is considered not persistent, which means that the browser can clear the data when there's storage pressure. If your app stores critical data, use the `navigator.storage.persist()` function to ask for your app's storage to be persistent. Persistent storage can only be cleared by the user. To learn more, see [StorageManager.persist()](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/StorageManager/persist) on MDN.
```
